.TH dibbler-server 8 2004-12-11 GNU Dibbler server

.SH NAME
dibbler-server \- a portable DHCPv6 server

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dibbler-server
is a portable implementation of the DHCPv6 server. It supports both stateful
(i.e. IPv6 address granting) and stateless (i.e. options granting)
autoconfiguration. There are ports available for Linux 2.4/2.6 systems
as well as MS Windows XP and 2003. They are freely available under 
.B GNU GPL 
version 2 (or later) license.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dibbler-server
[ run | start | stop | status | install | uninstall ]

.SH OPTIONS

.I run
- starts server in the console. Server can be closed using ctrl-c.

.I start 
- starts server in daemon mode.

.I stop
- stops running server.

.I status
- shows status of the server.

.I install
- installs server as a service. This is not implemented yet.

.I uninstall
- uninstall server service. This is not implemented yet.

.SH EXAMPLES

Let's assume simple case: server should provide clients located on the
eth1 link with IPv6 addresses from range 2000::100/120 and should have
preference set to 7:

.nf
iface eth0
{ 
  preference 7
  class
  {
    pool 2000::100-2000::1ff
  } 
}
.fi

Here is exmaple of server configured to work in a stateless mode
(i.e. only options, not addresses are served). If client support
option renewal, it should do so once in a 500 seconds:

.nf
log-level 7
log-mode short
stateless
iface eth0 {
  option dns-server 2000::100,2000::101
  option domain example.com, test1.example.com
  option ntp-server 2000::200,2000::201,2000::202
  option time-zone  CET
  option sip-server 2000::300,2000::302,2000::303,2000::304
  option sip-domain sip1.example.com,sip2.example.com
  option nis-server 2000::400,2000::401,2000::404,2000::405,2000::405
  option nis-domain nis.example.com
  option nis+-server 2000::501,2000::502
  option nis+-domain nisplus.example.com
  option lifetime 500
}
.fi

More examples can be found in the User's Guide.

.SH FILES
All files are created in the /var/lib/dibbler directory. Dibbler
server reads /var/lib/dibbler/server.conf file. During operation,
Dibbler saves various file in that directory.  Log file is named client.log.

.SH STANDARDS
This implementation aims at conformance to the following standards:

.I RFC 3315 
DHCP for IPv6

.I RFC 3319
SIP options for DHCPv6

.I RFC 3646
DNS server options for DHCPv6

.I RFC 3736
Stateless DHCPv6

.I RFC 3898
NIS options for DHCPv6

Also options specified in following drafts are implemented:

.I draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-opt-timeconfig-03.txt
NTP and timezone options.

.I draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-opt-lifetime-00.txt
Option renewal.

.SH BUGS
Bugs are tracked with bugzilla, available at
\fIhttp://klub.com.pl/bugzilla/\fP. If you belive you have found a
bug, don't hesitate to report it.

.SH AUTHOR
Dibbler was developed as master thesis on the Technical University of
Gdansk by Tomasz Mrugalski and Marek Senderski. Currently Marek has
not enough free time, so this project is being developed by Tomasz
Mrugalski. Authors can be reached at thomson@klub.com.pl and
msend@o2.pl

.SH SEE ALSO
There is dibbler-client(8) manual page. You are also advised to take a
look at project website located at
\fIhttp://klub.com.pl/dhcpv6/\fP.
As far as authors know, this is the only Windows DHCPv6 stateful
implementation available. It is also one of two freely available under
Linux. The other Linux implementation is available at
\fIhttp://dhcpv6.sourceforge.net\fP,
but it is rather outdated and seems not being actively developed.
